# A Brief Intro to SSH and Remote Jobs

Li Zhengyao

## What is SSH?

SSH is a short form for “Secure Shell”, also known as “Secure Shell Protocol”. 

It is a cryptographic network protocol.

Used for making network operating secure.

Nowadays the most commonly implemented software is OpenSSH.

## Why is SSH secure?

SSH transfers the data in encrypted form between the host and the client.

## Link to Host

`$ ssh –p port user@host`

“port” stands for the port number, e.g., 8888.

“user” stands for your user name.

“host” can be IP Address or Domain Name.

`$ ssh user@host`

When port is 22(the default port), it can be omitted.

`$ ssh –p port host`

When the local user name is the same as the remote user name, “user@” part can be omitted.

`$ ssh host`

## Query for password

When you’ve entered:

`$ ssh user@host`

The server may ask you for password. When you’re typing, the password won’t be shown on the screen.

After this, you’ve linked to the remote computer.

If it’s your first time linking to a host, you may be informed as:

```
The authenticity of host 'host (...)' can't be established. 

...

RSA key fingerprint is 98:2e:d7:e0:de:9f:ac:67:28:c2:42:2d:37:16:58:4d.

Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)?
```

If you type “yes”, then the host’s info will be saved at .ssh/known_hosts.

## Public key verification

If you use public key verification, you don’t need to input the password every time you login.

`$ ssh-keygen`

Press enters until you’ve gained the key. You can get the SSH key automatically. The keys have been saved at the designated address. The public key is id_rsa.pub, while the private key is id_rsa, all in .ssh/ forder.

Then you need to submit your public key to the server. For most machines, you just need to run:

`$ ssh-copy-id user@host –p port`

If you don’t have ssh-copy-id, you may use this:

`$ ssh user@host -p port 'mkdir -p .ssh && cat >> .ssh/authorized_keys' < ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`

It puts id_rsa.pub in the local machine to .ssh/authorized_keys directory in the remote machine.

## Run one command on Host

`$ ssh user@host COMMAND`

It’s quite simple, as you just need to attach the command to the linking.

For example, $ ssh user@host ls

## Define a host information

If you don’t want to enter post, user and host all the times, you may concatenate them into a host information.

Append these in .ssh/config:

    Host myhost

    Hostname host

    User user

    Port port

Then you can run this instead of the longer one:

`$ ssh myhost`

## Transferring files

A commonly used tool for transferring files is scp.

Simple form: (note that -P is capitalized)

`$ scp -P port [local path] user@host:[remote path]`

If you’ve defined the host, you can also use:

`$ scp [local path] myhost:[remote path]`

The above is to upload files. Downloading is the same easy:

`$ scp myhost:[remote path] [local path] `

If you want to upload or download folders, use –r option.

## Keep programs running

When the SSH process ends, all the programs it has started up will be killed at the same time.

We can use tmux to keep them running. If we don’t have it, we can install it.
At the remote server, we can type:

`$ tmux`

To get into tmux. All the things run in tmux won’t be killed when quiting SSH. Press Ctrl+B then D to temporarily quit tmux, and run 

`$ tmux attach `

to continue.
